---
layout: post
title:  "DockerCon 2019 - A Review"
description: >-
    In April 2019, I attended my first DockerCon. I also presented "Improving
    the Human Condition with Docker".
---

A few weeks ago, I attended DockerCon 2019 in San Francisco. More
importantly, I was also afforded the opportunity to present at DockerCon. It was
my first DockerCon, as well as my first conference presentation. The trip also
doubled as my honeymoon, but that's another article.

The conference itself was great. The keynotes were excellent, focusing primarily
on the new feature of Docker Enterprise. Main sessions focused on improving the
Docker experience for teams novice and experienced alike. Community and Partner
Theater sessions (lightning talks) varied quite a bit, though edge computing and
simplifying the development experience were common themes.

My presentation was part of the Community Theater. Presentations in the Community
Theater were less technical than primary sessions. These sessions focused more on
use cases and impact rather than syntax and performance. My presentation discussed
some of the use cases of Docker in a nonprofit research institute, as detailed in
my abstract:

> RTI International is an independent nonprofit research institute dedicated to
improving the human condition, looking into areas of crime analytics, health
economics and more. RTI International’s Center for Data Science sits at the
confluence of academic research and innovative technologies, developing complex
statistical and analytical applications derived from abstract research. In this
talk, Keith Richards of the Center for Data Science will discuss some of the
Center’s novel use cases of Docker technology throughout the data lifecycle
for projects such as: developing and deploying software-as-a-service crime
analytics, supporting public policy creation through horizontally scaled health
economics microsimulations, and managing the dependencies of several machine
learning applications.

Instead of detailing my presentation, I'll let the video do the talking. If a
picture is worth one thousand words, how many is a video worth?

[**Watch my presentation on Docker's website!**](https://www.docker.com/dockercon/2019-videos?watch=improving-the-human-condition-with-docker){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}

If you're interested in seeing other presentations from DockerCon '19, you're in
luck. The Docker team has published them all to a
[DockerCon '19 playlist on YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PLkA60AVN3hh-XtoZ8zoZir6wnpaVXGUgk){:target="_blank" rel="noopener noreferrer"}.
Check them out!